Diabetes is a chronic and increasingly common metabolic disorder, which now presents a serious threat to the health of the population. A condition that involves constantly high blood sugar levels as a result of faulty utilization or synthesis of insulin, diabetes results in conditions such as heart diseases, nerve damage and kidney issues. Diabetes can be of several types out where type 2 diabetes is the most frequent and is characterized by autonomic functions influenced by both genetic makeup and life experience.
The best approach in the management of diabetes is early diagnosis and treatment as this condition usually worsens with time. In view of the increasing incidence of diabetes in different parts of the world, prominent complications like obesity, lack of physical activity, and aging population, there are pressing needs for efficient methods and tools that would be used to forecast the onset of the diabetes complication at a stage when its severity is not yet extremely alarming. It has some variables namely number of pregnancies, glucose levels, blood pressure, skin thickness, insulin levels, BMI, family history of diabetes, and age. I believe these indicators can help deliver relevant information for understanding the vulnerable groups for subsequent early action. Simultaneously, they are assumed to influence diabetic risk where this forms the basis of model prediction.
For this task, supervised learning algorithms will be employed for constructing a classifier between risk and no risk cases for the formation of a diabetes disease based on medical and statistical characteristics. The use of such a model will also assist the health care practitioners to diagnose ailments at earlier time and in the process encourage early treatment, hence enhancing patient’s health. This project aim at applying the best of machine learning to turn raw medical data into intelligence to improve the prioritization of preventive health measures and resource allocation.

To prepare the diabetes dataset for better understanding and to eliminate inconsistencies that would hamper the learning process of the different algorithms.

Using Supervised Learning to classify people based on their risk of diabetes using Logistic Regression as well as Decision Trees.

In order to analyze and compare the effectiveness of these classification methods in regard to the accuracy rate.

In order to make recommendations which classification technique would yield the best predictions about the risk of having diabetes.
